---
layout: post
title: "Heygate Cinema Celebrates Opening Night"
date: 2012-09-25 17:16
comments: true
categories: [Heygate regeneration]
 ---

Following last year's attempts by Southwark Council to <a 
href="http://betterelephant.github.io/images/unauthorised_activities.pdf">prosecute 
remaining residents</a> involved in Better Elephant's interim use programme, 
this year Better Elephant decided to create a pop-up cinema which can be popped 
up and then quickly popped down again.

![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/heygate_cinema.JPG)

Around 50 people attended the opening night of the cinema last Saturday 22 Sep, 
for the premiere screening of the film ['Doreen'](http://youtu.be/CnkVzJXibyI) 
made by film-makers David Reeve and Patrick Steel.


In the film, Doreen Gee - former Chair of the Tenants and Residents Association 
- reminisces about the culture of the estate and what went wrong with the 
  regeneration.

![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/heygate_cinema2.JPG)

The evening was curated by our very own Jerry Flynn, former estate resident and 
experienced local campaigner.

Doreen and both of the film-makers attended the event, which was followed by an 
animated discussion around the regeneration and wider housing issues. The 
audience included a number of former Heygate residents and residents from the 
neighbouring Aylesbury estate, who were treated to a bowl of hot soup and 
refreshments following the lively discussion.

During the discussion, Doreen - who had originally been a strong propenent of 
the regeneration - spoke about the broken promises of new homes for residents 
of the estate and how many were forced into unsuitable accommodation much 
further afield. She also claimed she had been victimised after speaking out 
against the regeneration.

The film was accompanied by a number of newsclips about the estate and an 
excerpt from the film-makers' new feature-length documentary about the 
regeneration of the estate ([Larry and Janet Move 
out](http://larryandjanetmoveout.com)).  Film-makers David Reeve and Patrick 
Steel have been filming on the estate since the decant started, and have 
inspired the confidence of residents past and present.  They are due to release 
a feature length documentary about the estate in Autumn 2013.

<iframe width="400" height="225" 
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sl2rSodPHV8" frameborder="0" 
allowfullscreen></iframe>

Three days after the event, four council officers turned up to deliver the 
enforcement notice pictured below.

![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/CinemaNotice.JPG)

![](http://alicecalcagno.files.wordpress.com/2012/09/dsc_9857-2.jpg)

Fortunately, the <a href="http://betterelephant.org/space">Better Elephant 
group</a> was able to hastily pop-down the pop-up cinema on Wednesday evening 
before any harm came to it.

The cinema will be re-erected for the next film to be screened, which is 
Michael Wadleigh's 1981 film 'Wolfen' - a cautionary metaphor about real estate 
speculation and urban gentrification.

## Hotel Elephant

![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/daveware.jpg)

Meanwhile, 'developer-compliant' interim uses on other parts of the estate 
continue with the council's full backing: <a 
href="http://elefest.org/">Elefest's annual festival</a> is set to take place 
on the estate during 5th, 6th and 7th October. This marks the opening of the 
Heygate's new 'Hotel Elephant' - the former doctor's surgery and TRA clubroom 
which have been handed over to [Hotel 
Elephant](http://www.hotelelephant.co.uk/) (at nil cost) to be let out [(for 
profit)](http://www.hotelelephant.co.uk/studio-space/) as artist studios. Now 
that most of the remaining residents have been removed from the <a 
href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-london-19371334">'unpopular social 
housing' estate</a>, the drab interiors of the former community centre are 
being converted to plush artist studios in the first step towards creating the 
estate's new
community.


![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/daveware2.jpg)

Dave Ware from Southwark Council's regeneration team marked the opening of the 
studios<a href="http://www.elefest.org/event/hotel-elephant-launch/">on 6th 
October with</a> a performance by a gas-powered firebreathing robotic dragon. 

![](http://betterelephant.github.io/images/hotelelephant.jpg)
*Hotel Elephant's Director Reuben Powell*

<iframe width="350" height="197" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DymdD3Nq-e0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

![](http://betterelephant.github.com/images/mrstilki.jpg)

Meanwhile two of the remaining households on the estate - about to be <a 
href="http://heygate.github.io/displacement.html">forcibly displaced</a> - 
include pensioners in their seventies & eighties. Since the council <a 
href="http://www.southwarknews.co.uk/00,news,19279,185,00.htm">switched their 
heating off</a> in 2010, the Mustafa family and the Tilki family have been sat 
at home covered in blankets huddled around a portable electric fan heater - 
whilst artists and revellers gather around the spectacle of a fire-breathing 
dragon in the estate's former community hall. 

![](http://heygate.github.io/img/mrsmustafa.jpg)


