**\hfill some right aligned on same line bolded text**

Paul Warren
Local Government Ombudsman

Complaint ref:__16 005 626__

Dear Mr Warren,

Thank you for your email dated 14th Nov with the Ombudsman's draft decision and 
invitation to comment on the draft notice.

Firstly, we have the following comments to make on some of the wording in the 
draft decision notice:

>"Social rented housing and affordable housing now have specific meanings. 
For my purposes I shall use the term social housing units."(para. 10)

According to [section 68 (& 69) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/17/section/68), 'social housing' 
encompasses both social rented and affordable rented housing. To avoid 
confusion we suggest that the term 'social rented housing' is used throughout 
the decision notice.

>"Mr X says that by failing to supervise compliance some developers have failed 
>to provide the right number of social housing units."(para. 11)

Having provided the Ombudsman investigation with evidence that developers 
__have indeed failed__ to provide the right number of social rented housing 
units and given that the Council has acknowledged this, we request that this 
paragraph be updated to reflect this. We suggest the following revised wording: 
_"Mr X provided evidence indicating that by failing to supervise compliance 
some developers have failed to provide the right number of social rented 
housing units."_.

>"In response to my enquiries the Council accepts it did not have a systematic 
>supervision procedure to check compliance.(para. 12)

This fails to reflect the Council's admission in its (3/11/2016) response to 
question 5 of the Ombudsman's investigation that a 'small number' of the 43 
instances we submitted, _"have resulted in under-provision and are currently 
progressing these through legal channels, including trial at the High Court."_
 
We suggest the following revised wording: _"In response to my enquiries the 
Council has said that it is taking enforcement in response to several of the 
breaches identified by Mr X and that it did not have a systematic supervision 
procedure to check compliance._"

Secondly, we feel that the investigation has failed to address a major aspect 
of our complaint; namely that the Council has failed to take effective 
enforcement action to remedy the situtation in at least one instance where we 
discovered that social rented housing has failed to be provided. Our complaint 
specifically referred to a development of 205 homes at the Bermondsey Spa 
regeneration (ref:10/AP/3010), where 44 social rented homes required by 
planning consent were not provided.The Council argued that the situation was 
resolved by the agreement that the 44 units are going to be provided by the RSL 
concerned at a development elsewhere (Manor Place Depot 15/AP/1062). We 
complained that this remedy is ineffective because these 44 units are being 
used to fulfil the affordable housing quota for that development and therefore 
cannot be used to offset the shortfall.

It would appear that this part of our complaint has not been addressed by the 
investigation or the Ombudsman's decision notice. We request that it is 
considered and included in the decision notice. 

I look forward to hearing from you and please do not hesitate should you 
require further details regarding any of the above.

Yours sincerely,

Jerry Flynn
35% Campaign
www.35percent.org 
